Overview
Design and implement assessment strategies aligned with specific learning outcomes, evaluate learners' performance effectively, and provide constructive feedback. Additionally, you'll explore assessment methods, tools, and principles, ensuring assessments are fair, valid, and reliable while meeting the required standards and criteria.

Description
Conducting outcomes-based assessments ensures that learners achieve specific learning outcomes and are prepared to apply their knowledge and skills in practical contexts. This assessment approach fosters engagement, authentic learning, and critical thinking and aligns education with the needs of the real world.


Unit 1: Demonstrate understanding of outcomes-based assessments
1. Comparisons between outcome-based and other forms of assessment. 2. Recognition of prior learning. 3. Assessment methods. 4. Key principles of assessment. 5. Giving feedback on assessment.


Unit 2: Prepare for assessments
1. Introduction: Guidelines to assessors. 2. Preparation of assessment resources, logistics, documentation, and environment. 3. Prepare the learner for assessment. 4. All pre-assessment moderation requirements are carried out. 5. Inputs are sought from candidates regarding special needs and possible sources of evidence that could contribute to valid assessment. 6. The assessment policy and process is used to confirm that the candidate understands and is ready.

Unit 3: Conduct assessments
1. Assessment practices promote effective, manageable, fair and safe assessment. 2. The assessment is carried out according to the assessment design and assessment plan. 3. Questioning techniques are appropriate and successfully elicit appropriate responses. 4. Sufficient evidence is gathered. 5. Assessment judgements are consistent with judgements made on similar evidence . 6. Records of the assessments are in line with the organisation's quality assurance system.


Unit 4: Provide feedback on assessments
1. Feedback is given to relevant parties in accordance with confidentiality requirements. 2. Feedback is clear and sufficient information is provided to enable the purpose of the assessment to be met. 3. Feedback on the assessment process is obtained from the candidate. 4. Appeals that arise are dealt with according to the assessment policy.

Unit 5: Review assessments
1. The review identifies and records strengths and weaknesses. 2. Feedback from relevant parties is analysed. 3. Summary.

