Duration:
4h 10m
Tags
Retail, Sales and Marketing
Administration
Project Management
Overview
Clear, precise, and professional communication is essential in business. This Level 4 Business Writing course equips learners with advanced skills to produce reports and written communications that meet organisational standards, support informed decision-making, and maintain confidentiality. Learners will develop the ability to tailor content, format, and style to the needs of different stakeholders while ensuring accuracy, timeliness, and clarity.

Description
This course provides a comprehensive guide to advanced business writing, focusing on the preparation, verification, and distribution of reports within a professional setting. Learners will explore the purpose and content of various business reports, applying techniques to compile information that meets organisational requirements and deadlines. By the end of the course, learners will be able to produce high-quality reports and written communications that demonstrate professionalism, accuracy, and strategic awareness, equipping them to contribute effectively to organisational decision-making processes.


Unit 1: Use textual features and conventions specific to business texts for effective writing
1. Texts specific to a particular function in a business environment are identified and an indication is given of industry-specific and/or legislative requirements for each text. 2. Texts specific to a particular function in a business environment are produced in response to defined requirements. 3. The implications of not following the industry-specific or legislative requirements for a specific type of text are explained and an indication is given of the possible consequences of non-compliance. 4. Terminology and conventions specific to a particular function in a business environment are used appropriately.

Unit 2: Identify and collect information needed to write a text specific to a particular function
1. The intended or incidental audience for whom the text is to be written are identified for a specific field or subfield to focus the information needs. 2. The purpose of the text is identified within a specific field or subfield and according to the information. 3. Questions are asked to help understand client needs and to focus on information gathering. 4. Information required for the document is accessed from a variety of sources. 5. Information accessed is checked for accuracy, bias, stereotypes, and other offensive details. 6. The focus of the proposed text is defined, and a decision is made about what information should be included or omitted to ensure the focus. 7. A checklist is created to facilitate reflection and editing.

Unit 3: Compose a text using plain language for a specific function
1. A format and structure are selected for the text that is appropriate for the intended audience and function. 2. The main points to be included in the text are identified, and the necessary supporting details are added. 3. A first draft of the text is written that collates the necessary information in a rough framework.

Unit 4: Organise and structure a text appropriately for a business function
1. The first draft is checked to ensure that appropriate grammar has been used and where necessary the draft is rewritten in plain language using clear accessible language that avoids over-complex syntax. 2. Different ways of presenting the same information are considered and used where these enhance the meaning of the text. 3. Technical or marketing terms and jargon are interpreted and rephrased in plain language or used appropriately in the correct context where the terminology is essential to the understanding of the text. 4. All information is checked for accuracy and factual correctness. 5. The document is ordered to ensure that the sequence is logical and meaningful.

Unit 5: Present a written text for a particular function in a business environment
1. A text type, format, and layout are selected that is appropriate for the audience and purpose. 2. Layout and formatting techniques are used correctly to enhance the readability of the text. 3. Information in the document is evaluated in terms of its appropriateness for the intended audience and business function. 4. The final draft is proofread to check that it is completely correct. 5. The final copy is self-assessed using a rubric or checklist based on the requirements of the writing task and the items on the checklist created to Identify and collect information needed to write a text specific to a particular function