Duration:
5h 0m
Tags
Supply Chain and Logistics
Overview
Effectively overseeing the supply chain management environment.

Description
Effectively overseeing the supply chain management environment, exercising leadership and influence within the supply chain, fostering a culture of productivity through people, and guiding change initiatives in the supply chain are integral aspects of effective supply chain leadership

Unit 1: Lead and manage the supply chain management environment
1. The fundamental differences between leadership and managing are critically evaluated to determine their impact on the supply chain management environment 2. The behavioural traits of successful leaders are critically assessed to determine their impact on the supply chain management environment 3. A range of leadership styles is developed, and judgements are made on when to use each 4. Strategic leadership approaches are critically evaluated in terms of business influences

Unit 2: Lead and influence the supply chain
1. Models of influence are used to influence people in the supply chain 2. The different sources of power are critically assessed to determine legitimacy and acceptability when leading and influencing areas of the supply chain 3. Leading and influencing activities are executed through specific strategies 4. Various tactics and definitions are developed to influence the supply chain effectively 5. The outcomes of attempts to influence the supply chain are critically assessed to determine the impact on the supply chain

Unit 3: Develop a culture of productivity through people
1. The need for people to work effectively is explained in terms of the benefits to individuals and to work-based teams 2. A consensus on how to work together is developed to identify the potential for pitfalls and conflicts within the team 3. Diversity issues are critically assessed to determine how they relate to people's success and propose approaches to managing them 4. Ways of developing and motivating people are determined to increase their productivity and effectiveness 5. Team time is effectively planned to include scheduling, justifying resources, deadlines and delivery dates

Unit 4: Lead change in the supply chain
1. An innovative vision, values and culture are developed for the future 2. A range of change management models is critically evaluated to consider the implications of implementing the purchasing function 3. An appropriate style for leading and managing is developed for the strategic change process that will encourage stakeholders to welcome and embrace change within the purchasing function 4. Justifiable objectives for change are set and prioritised, and strategies for achieving them are drawn up 5. Resource requirements are determined to implement change within the purchasing function 6. Responsibility is delegated for the effective implementation of change 7. Force Field analysis is used to identify forces and barriers to change and determine what needs to be done to develop and assist change 8. Difficult leadership and management situations are negotiated effectively to resolve the problem 9. The impact of the change process on the supply chain performance is monitored and controlled to determine its effectiveness 10.Continuity of performance is managed while implementing change to maintain a business-as-usual approach to managing supply